Docs on enabling simple all-or-nothing scheduling in Kueue (#515)
kubernetes-sigs/kueue: docs/tasks/setup_all_or_nothing.md

> # All-or-nothing scheduling for jobs

Reviewer: I don't want to hype the expectations of users by mentioning "all-or-nothing" in the title.

Do you have other suggestions?

Reviewer: - Setup pod scheduling tracking
- Setup serial admission for guaranteed scheduling
?

Author: I chose the `Sequential Admission with Ready Pods` suggestion.

> Some jobs need all pods to be running at the same time to make progress, for
> example, when they require pod-to-pod communication. When running on a Kueue
> with default configuration such a pair of jobs may deadlock if there are issues
> with resource provisioning to match the configured cluster quota. The same pair
> of jobs could run to completion if their pods were scheduled sequentially.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Some jobs need all pods to be running at the same time to operate; for example, synchronized distributed training or MPI-based jobs which require pod-to-pod communication. On a default Kueue configuration, a pair of such jobs may deadlock if the physical availability of resources do not match the configured quotas in Kueue. The same pair of jobs could run to completion if their pods were scheduled sequentially.
```

> In version 0.3.0 of Kueue we introduce an opt-in mechanism, enabled by the
> `waitForPodsReady` global Kueue configuration, which provides a simple
> implementation of the all-or-nothing scheduling, to ensure jobs run only if
> all required resources are assigned. When enabled, startup of workloads is
> sequenced, i.e. a new job remains suspended until all previously started jobs
> have their resources assigned (all pods are running or completed, up the the
> level of the job parallelism).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To address this requirement, in version 0.3.0 we introduced an opt-in mechanism configured via the flag `waitForPodsReady` that provides a simple implementation of the all-or-nothing scheduling. When enabled, admission of workloads is blocked not only on the availability of quota, but also until all previously admitted jobs have their pods scheduled (all pods are running or completed, up the the level of the job parallelism).
```

This page shows you how to configure Kueue to use `waitForPodsReady`, which
is a simple implementation of the all-or-nothing scheduling.
The intended audience for this page are [batch administrators](/docs/tasks#batch-administrator).

## Before you begin

Make sure the following conditions are met:

- A Kubernetes cluster is running.
- The kubectl command-line tool has communication with your cluster.
- [Kueue is installed](/docs/setup/install.md) in version 0.3.0 or later.

## Enabling waitForPodsReady

Follow the instructions described
[here](/docs/setup/install.md#install-a-custom-configured-released-version) to
install a release version by extending the configuration with the following
fields:

```yaml
    waitForPodsReady:
      enable: true
      timeout: 10m
```

> **Note**
Note that, if you update an exiting Kueue installation you may need to restart the
`kueue-controller-manager` pod in order for Kueue to pick up the updated
configuration. In that case run:
```shell
kubectl delete pods --all -nkueue-system
```

> The timeout (`waitForPodsReady.timeout`) is an optional parameter, defaulting
> to 5 minutes if unspecified.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The timeout (`waitForPodsReady.timeout`) is an optional parameter, defaulting to 5 minutes.
```

> When the timeout is reached for an admitted workload and the workload
> remains in the `PodsReady=False` condition, then whe workload's admission is
> cancelled, the corresponding job is suspended and the workload is requeued
> in the same cluster queue.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When the timeout expires for an admitted workload, and the workload's
pods are not all scheduled yet (i.e., the workload condition remains `PodsReady=False`), then the workload's admission is
cancelled, the corresponding job is suspended and the workload is requeued.
```

## Example

> In this example we demonstrate what is the impact of enabling `waitForPodsReady`
> in Kueue. We create a pair of jobs which both require all their pods to
> be running at the same time to complete. There are enough resources in the
> cluster to support running one of the jobs at the same time, but not both. Both
> of the jobs require all of their pods to be running at the same time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this example we demonstrate the impact of enabling `waitForPodsReady` in Kueue. We create two jobs which both require all their pods to be running at the same time to complete. The cluster has enough resources to support running one of the jobs at the same time, but not both.
```

> **Note**
> In this example we use a cluster with autoscaling disabled in order to simulate
issues with resource provisioning to satisfy the configured cluster quota.

### 1. Preparation

First, check the amount of allocatable memory in your cluster. In many cases this
can be done with this command:

```shell
TOTAL_ALLOCATABLE=$(kubectl get node --selector='!node-role.kubernetes.io/master,!node-role.kubernetes.io/control-plane' -o jsonpath='{range .items[*]}{.status.allocatable.memory}{"\n"}{end}' | numfmt --from=auto | awk '{s+=$1} END {print s}')
echo $TOTAL_ALLOCATABLE
```
In our case this outputs `8838569984` which, for the purpose of the example, can
be approximated as `8429Mi`.

> #### Configure cluster quotas

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Configure ClusterQueue quotas
```

We configure the memory flavor by doubling the total memory allocatable in

> out cluster, in order to simulate issues with provisioning.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
our cluster, in order to simulate issues with provisioning.
```

        configMap:
          name: script-code_ID_
      containers:
      - name: main
        image: python:bullseye
        command: ["python"]
        args:
        - /script-path/main.py
        - "20"
        ports:
        - containerPort: 8080
        imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
        resources:
          requests:
            memory: "316Mi" # choose the value as 75% * (total allocatable memory / 20)
        volumeMounts:
          - mountPath: /script-path
            name: script-volume
      restartPolicy: Never
  backoffLimit: 0
```

#### Additional quick job

We also prepare an additional job to increase the variance in the timings to
make the deadlock more likely. Save the following yaml as `quick-job.yaml`:

```yaml
apiVersion: batch/v1
kind: Job
metadata:
  name: quick-job
  annotations:
    kueue.x-k8s.io/queue-name: main
spec:
  parallelism: 50
  completions: 50
  suspend: true
  template:
    spec:
      restartPolicy: Never
      containers:
      - name: sleep
        image: bash:5
        command: ["bash"]
        args: ["-c", 'echo "Hello world"']
        resources:
          requests:
            memory: "1"
  backoffLimit: 0
```

> ### 2. Induce deadlock on default configuration (optional)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### 2. Induce a deadlock under the default configuration (optional)
```

job2-10-vf4j9   1/1     Running     0          28m
job2-11-ktbld   0/1     Pending     0          28m
job2-12-sf4xb   1/1     Running     0          28m
job2-13-9j7lp   0/1     Pending     0          28m
job2-14-czc6l   1/1     Running     0          28m
job2-15-m77zt   0/1     Pending     0          28m
job2-16-7p7fs   0/1     Pending     0          28m
job2-17-sfdmj   0/1     Pending     0          28m
job2-18-cs4lg   0/1     Pending     0          28m
job2-19-x66dt   0/1     Pending     0          28m
job2-2-hnqjv    1/1     Running     0          28m
job2-3-pkwhw    1/1     Running     0          28m
job2-4-gdtsh    1/1     Running     0          28m
job2-5-6swdc    1/1     Running     0          28m
job2-6-qb6sp    1/1     Running     0          28m
job2-7-grcg4    0/1     Pending     0          28m
job2-8-kg568    1/1     Running     0          28m
job2-9-hvwj8    0/1     Pending     0          28m
```

These jobs are now deadlock'ed and are not going to be able to make progress.

#### Cleanup

Clean up the jobs by:
```shell
kubectl delete -f quick-job.yaml
kubectl delete -f /tmp/job1.yaml
kubectl delete -f /tmp/job2.yaml
```

> ### 3. Run when wait for pods ready is enabled

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### 3. Run with waitForPodsReady enabled
```

#### Enable waitForPodsReady

Update the Kueue configuration following the instructions [here](#enabling-waitforpodsready).

#### Run the jobs

Run the `start.sh` script

```yaml
sed 's/_ID_/1/g' job-template.yaml > /tmp/job1.yaml
sed 's/_ID_/2/g' job-template.yaml > /tmp/job2.yaml
kubectl create -f quick-job.yaml
kubectl create -f /tmp/job1.yaml
kubectl create -f /tmp/job2.yaml
```

#### Monitor the progress

Execute the following command in a couple of seconds internals to monitor
the progress:
```shell
kubectl get pods
```

We omit the pods of the completed `quick` job for brevity.

> 

Reviewer 3: Do you think we should also display the job status like:
```
kubectl get job -o custom-columns="NAME":.metadata.name,"COMPLETIONS":.spec.completions,"SUSPEND":.spec.suspend

NAME         COMPLETIONS   SUSPEND
sample-job   3             true
```

Author: I'm not convinced it will give us much. The fact that `job2` remains suspended could be assumed due to the fact that it does not have any pods running in the first output for `kubectl got pods`. 

Then, using two commands could make the timing important if someone wants to do the experiment on their own for the first time. If we want to go for multiple monitoring commands, I think we would need to provide commands for events monitoring (workload and job), which is a complication I wanted to avoid, if possible, for now. 

Also, in the command you provide the `.spec.completions` does not change, so I see no point including. Instead we could monitor `.status.succeeded` and `.status.ready`, but it does not seem necessary. WDYT?

job1-7-hgp9n    1/1     Running     0          9s
job1-8-ss248    1/1     Running     0          9s
job1-9-nwqmj    1/1     Running     0          9s
job2-0-djnjd    1/1     Running     0          3s
job2-1-trw7b    0/1     Pending     0          2s
job2-10-228cc   0/1     Pending     0          2s
job2-11-2ct8m   0/1     Pending     0          2s
job2-12-sxkqm   0/1     Pending     0          2s
job2-13-md92n   0/1     Pending     0          2s
job2-14-4v2ww   0/1     Pending     0          2s
job2-15-sph8h   0/1     Pending     0          2s
job2-16-2nvk2   0/1     Pending     0          2s
job2-17-f7g6z   0/1     Pending     0          2s
job2-18-9t9xd   0/1     Pending     0          2s
job2-19-tgf5c   0/1     Pending     0          2s
job2-2-9hcsd    0/1     Pending     0          2s
job2-3-557lt    0/1     Pending     0          2s
job2-4-k2d6b    0/1     Pending     0          2s
job2-5-nkkhx    0/1     Pending     0          2s
job2-6-5r76n    0/1     Pending     0          2s
job2-7-pmzb5    0/1     Pending     0          2s
job2-8-xdqtp    0/1     Pending     0          2s
job2-9-c4rcl    0/1     Pending     0          2s
```

> Once `job1` completes it frees the resources required by `job2` to run its pods

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once `job1` completes, it frees the resources required by `job2` to run its pods
```

to make progress. Finally, all jobs complete.

#### Cleanup

Clean up the jobs by:
```shell
kubectl delete -f quick-job.yaml
kubectl delete -f /tmp/job1.yaml
kubectl delete -f /tmp/job2.yaml
```

## Drawbacks

> A drawback of using the `waitForPodsReady` is that admission of workloads may
> be unnecessarily slowed down by sequencing in case there is enough resources
> to support concurrent workload startup.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When enabling `waitForPodsReady`, the admission of workloads may
be unnecessarily slowed down by sequencing in case the cluster has enough resources to support concurrent workload startup.
```

Some jobs need all pods to be running at the same time to make progress, for
example, when they require pod-to-pod communication.

When all-or-nothing scheduling is disabled (which is the default configuration),
a pair of jobs may deadlock if there are issues with resource provisioning to
match the configured cluster quota. The same pair of jobs could run to
completion if their pods were scheduled sequentially.

When all-or-nothing scheduling is enabled, startup of workloads is sequenced,
i.e. a new job remains suspended until all previously started jobs have their
resources assigned (all pods are running or completed, up the the level of the
job parallelism).

This page shows you how to configure Kueue to use all-or-nothing scheduling.
The intended audience for this page are [batch administrators](/docs/tasks#batch-administrator).

## Before you begin

Make sure the following conditions are met:

- A Kubernetes cluster is running.
- The kubectl command-line tool has communication with your cluster.
- [Kueue is installed](/docs/setup/install.md) in version 0.3.0 or later.
- The cluster has [quotas configured](administer_cluster_quotas.md).

## Kueue configuration

> Follow the instructions described [here]() to configure a released version :

Reviewer 4: It seems that a link is missing.

Author: Fixed, thanks
